
Data Models

The Rockfish platform focuses on solving data bottlenecks for enterprises. 
Our platform supports two types of operational data models: time-series and tabular .

Time-series Data

Time-series data refers to data that is collected over time. In time-series data, each entity is called a session . 
Each session is a collection of events ordered by a timestamp column.
Columns in a session can be of two types: metadata and measurement . 
In a session, metadata columns have the same values for events. These columns usually describe the session.
Measurement columns, on the other hand, have values that vary over time within a session. 
In some datasets, each session can also be identified using an explicit session key column.
Some examples of time-series datasets include:
- Web analytics data: User interactions with a website, including page views, clicks, and time spent.
- IoT data: Sensor readings from smart devices, such as temperature or humidity levels.
- Financial data: Stock prices or trading volumes over time.
Let's understand the time-series data model using concrete examples.

Example: Financial Transactions Dataset

Suppose we have a dataset that collects information about customer financial transactions:
Here, each transaction is an event . Each session is a set of transactions that a particular customer performs over time.
This dataset has two sessions, one for customer C1111 :
And the other for customer C2222 :
The following table describes how each column in this time-series dataset is classified:

Sample Time-series Datasets

Download the finance dataset
Download the pcap dataset

Tabular Data

Tabular data is organized into rows and columns. In tabular data, each entity is called a record . 
Each row represents an individual record, and each column represents a feature or attribute of the data. 
All columns in a tabular dataset are metadata columns.
Some examples of tabular datasets include:
- Customer data: Information about customers, such as name, age, address, and purchase history.
- Inventory data: Details about products, including product ID, name, category, quantity in stock, and price.
- Sales data: Records of sales transactions, including transaction ID, date, customer ID, and items sold.
Let's understand the tabular data model using concrete examples.

Example: Fall Detection Dataset

Suppose we have a dataset that collects information about patients who went through medical incidents (falls):
Here, each patient incident is a record and all columns are metadata columns. This dataset has 3 records.
For example, the first record in this dataset is:

Sample Tabular Datasets

Download the fall detection dataset
Download the spotify dataset

Choosing Between Time-series and Tabular Data Models

There can be multiple ways of interpreting the same dataset, based on how you plan to use the data in downstream tasks.
In the examples below, we model a Netflow dataset as both time-series and tabular. 
You can choose an appropriate data model based on what you will use the synthetic Netflow data for:
- If your downstream task is an ML model that looks at each flow and predicts its type , using the tabular data model might be preferable.
- On the other hand, if your downstream task is analyzing patterns over time, using the time-series data model might be a better choice.
Note : If a dataset contains only one session (a single group of metadata fields), it will be treated as tabular data rather than time-series data, as there are no distinct sessions to learn from.

Example: Modelling the Netflow Dataset as Time-series

Suppose we have a dataset that collects information about network flow data on IoT sensors:
Here, each flow is an event . Each session is a set of flows that went through a particular connection over time.
This dataset has two sessions, one for the UDP connection between 192.168.1.79:45927 and 239.255.255.250:15600 :
And the other for the TCP connection between 192.168.1.32:55822 and 18.194.169.124:80 :
The following table describes how each column in this time-series dataset is classified:

Example: Modelling the Netflow Dataset as Tabular

Like before, we have the same network flow data on IoT sensors:
This time, however, each flow is a record and all columns are metadata columns. This dataset has 6 records.
For example, the first record in this dataset is: