
SDK Installation


Requirements

- The Rockfish platform works with Python >=3.9. For information on installation of Python or upgrading the version, refer to the official docs .
The Rockfish platform works with Python >=3.9. For information on installation of Python or upgrading the version, refer to the official docs .
- The Rockfish SDK will work with any Python development environment. We recommend that you use a virtual environment manager when using our platform. The Rockfish SDK has been tested using Python’s officially supported virtual environment manager venv and the conda package manager .
The Rockfish SDK will work with any Python development environment. We recommend that you use a virtual environment manager when using our platform. The Rockfish SDK has been tested using Python’s officially supported virtual environment manager venv and the conda package manager .
- For convenience, you can also use Jupyter notebooks. For more information on installation and usage of Jupyter Notebooks please see the documentation here . Best practices using Jupyter notebooks with virtual environment management tools can be found here .
For convenience, you can also use Jupyter notebooks. For more information on installation and usage of Jupyter Notebooks please see the documentation here . Best practices using Jupyter notebooks with virtual environment management tools can be found here .

Setup

We recommend using Python >=3.9 to run the Rockfish SDK. This section assumes you are using pip , venv , and macOS/Linux.
Create a fresh virtual environment and activate it:

$ python -m venv rf-venv
$ source rf-venv/bin/activate

Note: You can replace rf-venv here with the virtual environment name of your choice.
Ensure you have the latest version of pip :

$ python -m pip install --upgrade pip

Install the latest version of the Rockfish SDK using pip :

$ pip install -U 'rockfish[labs]' -f 'https://packages.rockfish.ai'


Verification

To check that the Rockfish SDK is installed correctly, you can use one of the following:

$ python -c "import rockfish; print(rockfish.product_version)" $ python -m pip show rockfish


Troubleshooting

If you need assistance, please reach out to support@rockfish.ai and we can help you to get started. We would be happy to help you with any question on prerequisites, or issue with supported versions.

What's Next?

Now that you are done installing the Rockfish SDK, you can:
- Follow the tutorial to set up the Rockfish platform in your pipeline .
- Go through the Use Case Tutorials to see how Rockfish can meet your business requirements.